=========================================
Building the NumPy API and reference docs
=========================================

We currently use Sphinx_ for generating the API and reference
documentation for Numpy.  You will need Sphinx 0.5 or newer. Sphinx's
current development version also works as of now (2009-06-24), and
using it is recommended though not required.

If you only want to get the documentation, note that pre-built
versions can be found at

    http://docs.scipy.org/

in several different formats.

.. _Sphinx: http://sphinx.pocoo.org


Instructions
------------

Since large parts of the main documentation are stored in
docstrings, you will need to first build Numpy, and install it so
that the correct version is imported by

    >>> import numpy

Note that you can eg. install Numpy to a temporary location and set
the PYTHONPATH environment variable appropriately. Also note that if
you have a system Numpy installed via Python eggs, you will also need
to use ``setupegg.py`` to install the temporary Numpy.

After Numpy is installed, write::

    make html

in this ``doc/`` directory. If all goes well, this will generate a
``build/html`` subdirectory containing the built documentation. Note
that building the documentation on Windows is currently not actively
supported, though it should be possible. (See Sphinx_ documentation
for more information.)

To build the PDF documentation, do instead::

   make latex
   make -C build/latex all-pdf

You will need to have Latex installed for this.

In addition to the above, you can also do::

   make dist

which will rebuild Numpy, install it to a temporary location, and
build the documentation in all formats. This will most likely again
only work on Unix platforms.


Sphinx extensions
-----------------

Numpy's documentation uses several custom extensions to Sphinx.  These
are shipped in the ``sphinxext/`` directory, and are automatically
enabled when building Numpy's documentation.

However, if you want to make use of these extensions in third-party
projects, they are available on PyPi_ as the numpydoc_ package, and
can be installed with::

    easy_install numpydoc

In addition, you will need to add::

    extensions = ['numpydoc']

to ``conf.py`` in your Sphinx documentation.

The following extensions are available:

  - ``numpydoc``: support for Numpy docstring format in Sphinx.

  - ``numpydoc.only_directives``: (DEPRECATED)

  - ``numpydoc.plot_directives``: Adaptation of Matplotlib's ``plot::``
    directive. Note that this implementation may still undergo severe
    changes or be eventually deprecated.

  - ``numpydoc.autosummary``: (DEPRECATED) An ``autosummary::`` directive.
    Available in Sphinx 0.6.2 and (to-be) 1.0 as ``sphinx.ext.autosummary``,
    and it the Sphinx 1.0 version is recommended over that included in
    Numpydoc.

  - ``numpydoc.traitsdoc``: For gathering documentation about Traits attributes.


.. _PyPi: http://python.org/pypi
.. _numpydoc: http://python.org/pypi/numpydoc
